** DO NOT MERGE ** Compute Resource Consolidation pattern update - Removed obsolete example on the doc, and pattern implementation examples (#3321)
MicrosoftDocs/architecture-center: docs/patterns/compute-resource-consolidation.md

> ## Context and problem

Reviewer: Can you update the metadata at the top of this file?  Updating the date if you've reviewed the content.

Author: Date updated

> A cloud application often implements a variety of operations. In some solutions it makes sense to follow the design principle of separation of concerns initially, and divide these operations into separate computational units that are hosted and deployed individually (for example, as separate App Service web apps, separate Virtual Machines). However, although this strategy can help simplify the logical design of the solution, deploying a large number of computational units as part of the same application can increase runtime hosting costs and make management of the system more complex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A cloud application often implements a variety of operations. In some solutions it makes sense to follow the design principle of separation of concerns initially, and divide these operations into separate computational units that are hosted and deployed individually (for example, as separate App Service web apps or separate Virtual Machines). However, although this strategy can help simplify the logical design of the solution, deploying a large number of computational units as part of the same application can increase runtime hosting costs and make management of the system more complex.
```

As an example, the figure shows the simplified structure of a cloud-hosted solution that is implemented using more than one computational unit. Each computational unit runs in its own virtual environment. Each function has been implemented as a separate task (labeled Task A through Task E) running in its own computational unit.

![Running tasks in a cloud environment using a set of dedicated computational units](./_images/compute-resource-consolidation-diagram.png)

Each computational unit consumes chargeable resources, even when it's idle or lightly used. Therefore, this isn't always the most cost-effective solution.

> In Azure, this concern applies to App Services, Container Apps and Virtual Machines. These items run in their own virtual environment. Running a collection of separate websites, microservices, or virtual machines that are designed to perform a set of well-defined operations, but that need to communicate and cooperate as part of a single solution, can be an inefficient use of resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Azure, this concern applies to App Services, Container Apps, and Virtual Machines. These items run in their own environment. Running a collection of separate websites, microservices, or virtual machines that are designed to perform a set of well-defined operations, but that need to communicate and cooperate as part of a single solution, can be an inefficient use of resources.
```

This pattern might not be suitable for tasks that perform critical fault-tolerant operations, or tasks that process highly sensitive or private data and require their own security context. These tasks should run in their own isolated environment, in a separate computational unit.

## Application platform choices

This pattern can be achieved in different ways, depending on the compute service you use. See the following example services:

- Azure App Service and Azure Functions: Deploy shared App Service plans, which represent the hosting server infrastructure. One or more apps can be configured to run on the same computing resources (or in the same App Service plan).
- Azure Container Apps: Deploy container apps to the same shared environments; especially in situations when you need to manage related services or you need to deploy different applications to the same virtual network.

> - Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS): Deploy shared pods, with a multitenancy-aware application.

Author: @ckittel  what's your suggestion here ?

"Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS): Deploy shared pods, with a multitenancy-aware application."

Reviewer: Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS): AKS is a container-based hosting infrastructure in which multiple applications or application components can be configured to run co-located on the same computing resources (nodes), grouped by computational requirements such as CPU or memory needs (node pools).

What about something like this?

Author: Perfect ! Done.

> - Virtual machines: Deploy a single set of virtual machines for all tenants to use, that way the management costs are shared accross the tenants.

Author: Done

> - Virtual machines: Deploy a single set of virtual machines for all tenants to use, that way the management costs are shared accross the tenants. Virtual Machine Scale sets is a feature that automatically allows shared resource management, load-balancing, scaling, application's highly availability with no extra cost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Virtual machines: Deploy a single set of virtual machines for all tenants to use, that way the management costs are shared accross the tenants. Virtual Machine Scale Sets is a feature that supports shared resource management, load-balancing, and horizontal scaling of Virtual Machines.
```
